TASK 5.3

1. How many states could has a process in Linux?
 
R- running or ready to run (ready state)
D- in "deep sleep" - waiting for disk I / O
T- is stopped (stopped) or traced by the debugger
S- on hold in sleeping
Z- zombi
 comand 'ps'(top, htop) view a list of running processes
ps aux

2. Examine the pstree command. Make output (highlight)
the chain (ancestors) of the current process

3. What is a proc file system?

The proc folder is a very unusual folder.
It does not exist on disk or in RAM as it does in / tmp.
All subdirectories, files and information stored in them
are generated by the kernel on the fly, as soon as you request it.

4. Print information about the processor (its type, supported technologies, etc.).

cat /proc/cpuinfo

serhiy@DESKTOP-QOKBTCP:~$ cat /proc/cpuinfo
processor       : 0
vendor_id       : GenuineIntel
cpu family      : 6
model           : 55
model name      : Intel(R) Celeron(R) CPU  N2840  @ 2.16GHz
stepping        : 8
microcode       : 0xffffffff
cpu MHz         : 2166.667
cache size      : 1024 KB
physical id     : 0
siblings        : 2
core id         : 0
cpu cores       : 2
apicid          : 0
initial apicid  : 0
fpu             : yes
fpu_exception   : yes
cpuid level     : 11
wp              : yes
flags           : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht syscall nx rdtscp lm constant_tsc rep_good nopl xtopology cpuid pni pclmulqdq ssse3 cx16 sse4_1 sse4_2 movbe popcnt rdrand hypervisor lahf_lm 3dnowprefetch pti ibrs ibpb stibp smep erms md_clear arch_capabilities
bugs            : cpu_meltdown spectre_v1 spectre_v2 mds msbds_only
bogomips        : 4333.33
clflush size    : 64
cache_alignment : 64
address sizes   : 36 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
power management:

5. Use the ps command to get information about the process. The information should be as
follows: the owner of the process, the arguments with which the process was launched for
execution, the group owner of this process, etc.

 ps au

serhiy@DESKTOP-QOKBTCP:~$ ps au
USER       PID %CPU %MEM    VSZ   RSS TTY      STAT START   TIME COMMAND
serhiy      10  0.0  0.1  10168  5100 pts/0    Ss   09:45   0:00 -bash
serhiy     101  0.0  0.1  10620  3436 pts/0    R+   13:32   0:00 ps au

6. How to define kernel processes and user processes?

The linux kernel processes are started by the kernel itself,
and the kthread process with PID = 2 is assigned to the parent process
that supposedly spawned them. Thus, the processes of the kernel 
hould be considered the process itself with PID = 2,
as well as processes for which the PPID (i.e. the pid of the parent) is 2.

sudo ps --ppid=2 --pid=2

User processes - all others:
sudo ps -N --ppid=2 --pid=2

7. Print the list of processes to the terminal. Briefly
describe the statuses of the processes.
What condition are they in, or can they be arriving in?

ps -eF

serhiy@DESKTOP-QOKBTCP:~$ ps -eF
UID        PID  PPID  C    SZ   RSS PSR STIME TTY          TIME CMD
root         1     0  0   225   528   1 09:45 ?        00:00:00 /init
root         8     1  0   225    84   0 09:45 ?        00:00:00 /init
root         9     8  0   225    84   0 09:45 ?        00:00:00 /init
serhiy      10     9  0  2542  5100   0 09:45 pts/0    00:00:00 -bash
serhiy     109    10  0  2655  3380   1 13:46 pts/0    00:00:00 ps -eF

UID - is the name of the user on whose behalf the process is running;
PID - user identifier;
PPID - the identifier of the parent process of the user;
C - consumption of processor resources, in percent;
SZ - is the size of the process;
RSS - is the real size of the process in memory;
PSR - is the processor core on which the process is running;
STIME - time when the process was started;
TTY - if a process is bound to a terminal, then its number
will be displayed here;
TIME - total process execution time (user + system);
CMD - the command that started the process, if the program
cannot read the arguments of the process, it will be displayed in square brackets

8.Display only the processes of a specific user

serhiy@DESKTOP-QOKBTCP:~$ ps -au serhiy
  PID TTY          TIME CMD
   10 pts/0    00:00:00 bash
  117 pts/0    00:00:00 ps

9.What utilities can be used to analyze existing running tasks
(by analyzing the help for the 'ps'(command)?

in manual for 'ps' view prosess we can use command (pgrep, pstree, top, proc)

10. What information does top command display?
comand 'top' display prosess real-time

11. Display the processes of the specific user using the top command.

top -u serhiy

12.What interactive commands can be used to control the top command?
Give a couple of examples
top
Shift+M - sort by memory (% MEM)
Shift+T - processes the longest
Shift+N - processes by their number (PID)

13. Sort the contents of the processes window using various parameters
(for example, the amount of processor time taken up, etc.)

top
Shift+F and 'd'- choose a process (the symbol "*" will appear)
press 'x' The column with the corresponding sign will be highlighted

14. Concept of priority, what commands are used to set priority? 

the 'Nice' parameter is used to control the priority
you can specify the priority for the started process

nice -n 10 apt-get upgrade
or change prioryty
sudo renice -n 10 -p 1343   -indicate PID (1343)

15. Can I change the priority of a process using the top command? If so, how?

top
enter 'r'
pid 61 
PID to renice [default pid = 25] enter new value 14
   61 serhiy    34  14   10876   3644   3132 R   0.3   0.1   0:00.32 top
    1 root      20   0     900    524    464 S   0.0   0.0   0:00.09 init
   24 root      20   0     900     80     20 S   0.0   0.0   0:00.00 init
   25 root      20   0     900     80     20 S   0.0   0.0   0:00.42 init
   26 serhiy    20   0   10168   5236   3472 S   0.0   0.2   0:00.25 bash

16. Examine the kill command. How to send with the kill command
process control signal? Give an example of commonly used signals.

kill 107 (my PID 107 for ping 8.8.8.8)
kill -s SIGKILL 111

17. Commands jobs, fg, bg, nohup. What are they for? Use the sleep, yes command to
demonstrate the process control mechanism with fg, bg.

jobs - the state of all stopped and running 
in the background tasks within the current session
fg - return the process from the background to the foreground
bg - bring the process to the background
nohup- save prosess after closed terminal session

sleep 1000 &
sleep 900 &
sleep 800 &
jobs -l
fg %1
Ctl+Z
jobs -l
bg %1
jobs -l
nohup sleep 1000 &
jobs -l
kill PID
killall sleep

	Part2

1. Check the implementability of the most frequently used OPENSSH commands in the MS
Windows operating system. (Description of the expected result of the commands +
screenshots: command – result should be presented)

ssh user@host (name user and ip adress)
ssh-keygen    (generate private and public key)
ssh user@host 'command' (execute commands on host)

nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config 
Port 22
#AddressFamily any
ListenAddress 0.0.0.0
#ListenAddress ::
